* 目录

{:toc}

# Core API
## Classes

### Structure

#### Overview

A compiled class contains following sections:

- A section describing the modifiers (such as public or private), the name, the super class, the interfaces and the annotations of the class.
- One section per field declared in the class, each section describes the modifiers, the name, the type and the annotations of a field.
- One section per method and constructor declared in this class.Each section describes the modifiers, the name, the return and parameter types and the annotations of a method.It also contains the compiled code of a method, in the form of a sequence of Java bytecode instructions.

The differences between sourace and compiled classes:

- A compiled class describes only one class, while a source file can contain serveral classes.
- A compiled class doesn't contain comments.
- A compiled class doesn't contain package and import section, so all type names must be fully qualified.

Another very important structural difference is that a compiled class contains a *constant pool section*.This pool is an array containing all the numeric, string and type constants that appear in the class.These constant are defined only once, in the constant pool section, and are referenced by their index in all other sections of the class file.Hopefully ASM hides all the details related to the constant pool, so you will not be bothered about that.

Following is class structure in order:

1. Modifiers, name, super class, interfaces
2. Constant pool : numeric, string, type constants
3. source file name?
4. Enclosing class reference
5. Annotation*
6. Attribute*
7. Inner class*(name)
8. Field*
9. Method*

Following is field structure in order:

1. Modifiers, name, type
2. Annotation*
3. Attribute*

Following is method structure in order:

1. Modifier, name, return and parameter types
2. Annotation*
3. Attribute*
4. Compiled code

#### Internal name

In many situations a type is constrained to be a class or interface type, for example the super class of a class, the interfaces implemented by a class, or the exception thrown by a method cannot be primitive types or array types.These types are represented in compiled classes with *internal names*.The internal name of a class is just the fully qualified name of this class, where dots are replaced with slashes, for instance the internal name of java.lang.String is java/lang/String.

#### Type descriptors

Internal names are used only for types that are constrained to be class or interface types, in all other situations, such as field types, Java types are represented in compiled classes with *type descriptors*.The descriptors of the primitive types are single characters, and the descriptor of a class type is the internal name of this class, preceeded by L and followed by a semicolon.

| Java type    | Type descriptoR      |
| ------------ | -------------------- |
| boolean      | Z                    |
| char         | C                    |
| byte         | B                    |
| short        | S                    |
| int          | I                    |
| float        | F                    |
| long         | J                    |
| double       | D                    |
| Object       | Ljava/lang/Object;   |
| int[]        | [I                   |
| Object\[]\[] | [[Ljava/lang/Object; |

#### Method descripors

A method descriptor is a list of type descriptors that describe the parameter types and the return type of a method, in a single string.A method descriptor starts with a left parenthesis, followed by the type descriptors of each formal parameter, followed by a right parenthesis, followed by the type descripor of the return type, or V if the method returns void(A method descriptor doesn't contain the name of method or the argument name).

| Method declaration in source file | Method descriptor      |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| void m(int i, float f)            | (IF)V                  |
| int m(int i, String s)            | (ILjava/lang/String;)I |
| int[] m(int[] i)                  | ([I)[I                 |

### Interfaces and components

#### Presentation

The methods of the ClassVisitor class must be called in the following order, specified in the Javadoc of this class:

1. visit
2. visitSource?
3. visitOuterClass?
4. (visitAnnotation|visitAttribute)*
5. (visitInnerClass|visitField|visitMethod)*
6. visitEnd

ASM provides three core components based on the ClassVisitor API to generate and transform classes:

- The **ClassReader** class parses a compiled class given as a byte array and calls the corresponding visitXxx methods on the *ClassVisitor* instance passed as argument to its accept method.
- The **ClassWriter** class is a subclass of the ClassVisitor abstract class that builds compiled classes directly in binary form.It produces a byte array as output containing the compiled class, which can be retrieved with the **toByteArray** method.
- The **ClassVisitor** class delegates all the method calls it receives to another *ClassVisitor* instance.



### Tools

#### Type

It's hard to understand internal name and type descriptors like source code, so asm provides a tool named *Type* to let you omit such differences between them.

You can build a Type object from Class,type descriptor,method,method descriptors.

#### TraceClassVisitor

TraceClassVisitor is a helpful class to show your a readable trace of visit.With this class instance as an filter before ClassWriter, you will see a outlook of the class generated by ClassWriter.

#### CheckClassAdapter

Sometimes you will generate some invalid class, asm provide a tool named CheckClassAdapter to check is the input class valid to output, it's a good way to detect errors as early as possible.

#### ASMifier

ASMifier provides an alternative backend for the TraceClassVisitor tool(which by default uses a Textifier backend).This backend makes each method of the TraceClassVisitor class print the corrrespond java code shows how to generate such class by asm way.

## Method

### Structure

#### Execution model

As you know Java code is executed inside *threads*, each thread has its own execution stack, which is made of frames. Each frame represents a method invocation: each time a method is invoked, a new frame is pushed on the current thread's execution stack.When the method returns, either normally or because of an exception, this frame is popped from the execution stack and execution continues in the calling method(Whose frame is now on top of the stack).

Each frame contains two parts: a local variables part and an operand stack part.The *local variables* part contains variables that can be accessed by their index, in random order. The *operand stack* part, as its name implies, is a stack of values of values that are used as operands by bytecode instructions.This means that the values in this stack can only be accessed in Last In First Out order. Don't confuse the operand stack and the thread's execution stack:each frame in the execution stack contains its own operand stack.

The size of the local variables and operand stack parts depends on the method's code. It is computed at compiled at compile time and is stored along with the bytecode instructions in compiled classes.As a consequence, all the frames that correspond to the invocation of a given method have the same size, but frames that correspond to different methods can have different sizes for their frame.

When it is created, a frame is initialized with an empty stack, and its local variables are initialized with the target object this (for non static methods) and with the method's arguments.For instance, a.equals(b) creates a frame with an empty stack and with two local variables initialized to a and b(other local variables remain uninitialized).

Each slot in the local variables and operand stack parts can hold any Java value except long and double values. These values require two slots, this complicates the management of local variables.

#### Bytecode instructions

A byte instruction is made of an opcode that identifies this instruction and of a fixed number of arguments:

- The opcode is an unsigned byte value - hence the bytecode name - and is identified by a mnemonic symbol.
- The argmuments are static values that define the precise instruction behavior. They are given just after the opcode. Instruction arguments must not be confused with instruction operands: argument values are statically known and are stored in the compiled code, while operand values come from the operand stack and are known only at runtime.

The bytecode instructions can be divided into two categories: a small set of instructions is designed to transfer values from the local variables to the operand stack, and vice versa.

| instruction | arguments | description                                                  |
| ----------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| ILOAD       | i         | Push the i-th slot in variables part into operand stack.This instruction only used for boolean, byte, char, short, int type. |
| LLOAD       | i         | Same as ILOAD but used for long, it will load two slots i and i+1. |
| FLOAD       | i         | Same as ILOAD but used for float.                            |
| DLOAD       | i         | Same as LLOAD but used for double.                           |
| ALOAD       | i         | Same as ILOAD but used for non primitive type.               |
| ISTORE      | i         | Pop a boolean, byte, char, short, int type value from operand stack and store into i-th slot. |
| LSTORE      | i         | Same like ISTORE but used for long                           |
| FSTORE      | i         | Same like ISTORE but used for float                          |
| DSTORE      | i         | Same like IStore but used for double                         |
| ASTORE      | i         | Same like IStore but used for non primitive type.            |

It's easy to find out that the prefix of instruction shows its operand type.I for boolean, byte, char, short, int, L for long, F for float, D for double, A for non primitive type.Almost all java instructions follow this constraint.

It's illegal to load data in wrong format, for example, `ISTORE 1 ALOAD 1` is illegal, but you can store any type value in each slot.

As said above, all other bytecoe instructions work on the operand stack only. They can be grouped in the following categories.

- **Stack** : These instructions are used to manipulate values on the stack, POP pops the value on top of the stack,DUP pushes a copy of the top stack value, SWAP pops two values and pushes them in the reverse order, etc.
- **Constants** : These instructions push a constant value on the operand stack: ACONST_NULL push null, ICONST_0 pushes the int value 0, FCONST_0 pushes 0f, DCONST_0 pushes 0d, BIPUSH b pushes the byte value b, SIPUSH s pushes the short value s, LDC cst pushes the arbitrary int, float, long, double, String, or class constant cst, etc.
- **Arithmetic and logic** : These instructions pop numeric values from the operand stack combine them and push the result on the stack.They do not have any argument. xADD, xSUB, xMUL, xDIV and xREM correspond to  the +, - ,*, / and % operations, where x is either I, L, F, or D.
- **Casts** : These instructions pop a value from the stack, convert it to another type, and push the result back. They correspond to cast expressions in Java. I2F, F2D, L2D, etc. Convert numeric values from one numeric type to another. CHECKCAST t converts a reference value to the type t.
- **Objects** : These instructions are used to create objects, look them, test their type, etc.For instatnce the NEW type instruction pushes a new object of type *type* on the stack(where type is an internal name).
- **Fields** : These instructions read or write the value of a field. GETFIELD *owner name desc* pops an object reference, and pushes the value of its name field. PUTFIELD *owner name  desc* pops a value and an object reference,and stores this value in its *name* field. In both cases the object must be of type owner, and its field must be of type *desc*. GETSTATIC and PUTSTATIC are similiar instructions, but for static fields.
- **Methods** : These instruction invoke a method or a constructor. They pop as many values as there are method arguments, plus one value for the target object, and push the result of the method invocation. INVOKEVIRTUAL *owner name desc* invokes the name method defined in class owner, and whose method descriptor is desc. INVOKESTATIC is used for static methods, INVOKESPECIAL for private methods and constructors, and INVOKEINTERFACE for methods defined in interfaces. Finally for Java 7 classes, INVOKEDYNAMIC is used for the new dynamic method invocation mechanism.
- **Arrays** : These instructions are used to read and write values in arrays. The xALOAD instructions pop an index and an array, and push the value of the array element at this index. The xASTORE instructions pop a value,an index and an array, and store this value at that index in the array. Here x can be I, L, F, D or A, but also B, C or S.
- **Jumps** : These instructions jump to an arbitrary instruction if some condition is true, or unconditionally. They are used to compile if , for , do, while, break and continue instructions. For instance IFEQ label pops an int value from the stack, and jumps to the instruction designed by label if the value is 0 (otherwise execution continues normally to the next instruction). Many other jump instructions exist, such as IFNE or IFGE. Finally TABLESWITCH and LOOKUPSWITCH correspond to the switch Java instruction.
- **Return** : Finally the xRETURN and RETURN instructions are used to terminate the execution of a method and to return its result to the caller. RETURN is used for methods that return void, and xRETURN for the other methods.

### Interfaces and components

The ASM API for generating and transforming compiled methods is based on the MethodVisitor abstract class, which is returned by the ClassVisitor's visitMethod method. 

These methods must be called in the following order (with some additional constraints specified in the Javadoc of the MethodVisitor interface):

- visitAnnotationDefault?

- (visitAnnotation|visitParameterAnnotation|visitAttribute)*

- (visitCode

  (visitTryCatchBlock|visitLabel|visitFrame|visitXxxInsn|visitLocalVariable|visitLineNumber)*visitMaxs)?

- visitEnd

MethodVisitors are independent, so it's valid to create a new MethodVisitor before another's visitEnd is called.

ASM provides three core componentgs based on the MethodVisitor API to generate and transform methods:

- The **ClassReader** class parses the content of compiled methods and calls the corresponding methods on the MethodVisitor objects returned by the ClassVisitor passed as argument to its accept method.
- The ClassWriter's visitMethod method returns an implementation of the MethodVisitor interface that builds compiled methods directly in binary form.
- The MethodVisitor class delegates all the method calls it receives to another MethodVisitor instance. It can be seen as an event filter.

#### ClassWriter options

Computing the stack map frames for a method is not very easy: You have to compute all the frames, find the frames that correspond to jump targets or that follow unconditional jumps, and finally compress these remaining frames. Likewise, computing the size of the local variables and operand stack parts for a method is easier but still not very easy.

Hopefully ASM can compute this for you. When you create a ClassWriter you can specify what must be automatically computed:

- With new ClassWriter(0) nothing is automatically computed.
- With new ClassWriter(ClassWriter.COMPUTE_MAXS) the sizes of the local variables and operand stack parts are computed for you. 
- With new ClassWriter(ClassWriter.COMPUTE_FRAMES) everything is computed automatically.

Using these options is convenient but this has a cost: the COMPUTE_MAXS option makes a ClassWriter 10% slower, and using the COMPUTE_FRAMES option makes it two times slower.

### Tools

The org.objectweb.asm.commons package contains some predefined method adapters that can be useful to define your own adapters. 

#### Type

Many bytecode instructions, such as xLOAD, xADD, xRETURN, depend on the type to which they are applied. The Type class provides a getOpcode method that can be used to get, for these instructions, the opcode corresponding to a given type. This method takes as parameter an opcode for the int type, and returns the opcode for the int type, and returns the opcode for the type on which it is called. For instance t.getOpcode(IMUL) returns FMUL if t is equal to Type.FLOAT_TYPE.

#### LocalVariablesSorter

This method adapter renumbers the local variables used in a method in the order they appear in this method. For instance in a method with two parameters, the first local variable read or written whose index is greater than or equal to 3 - the first three local variables correspond to this and to the two method parameters, and can therefore not be changed - is assigned index 3, the second one is assigned index4, and so on, This adapter is useful to inseart new local variables in a method.

#### AdviceAdapter

This method adapter is an abstract class that can be used to insert code at the beginning of a method and just before any RETURN or ATHROW instruction. Its main advantage is that it also works for constructors, where code must not be insertedf just at the beginning of the constructor, but after the call to the super constructor.

## Metadata

