---
categories: language
layout: post
---

[TOC]

# Introduction

YAML is the abbreviated form of "YAML Ain't Markup Language". It's a data serialization language designed to be human-friendly and work well with modern programming languages for common everyday tasks.

# Preview

## Collections

YAML's block collections use indentation for scope and begin each entry on its own line. Block sequences indicate each entry with a "- ". Mappings use a colon and space ": " to mark each key:value pair. Comments begin with an "#".

```yaml
a: #name
 - dog #type
 - young #age
 - white #color
b:
 - cat
 - old
 - grey
```

```yaml
- type
 a : dog
 b : cat
- age
 a : young
 b : old
- color
 a : white
 b : grey
```

YAML also has flow styles, using explicit indicators rather than indentation to denote scope. The flow sequence is written as a comma separated list within square brackets. In a similar manner, the flow mapping uses curly braces.

```yaml
- a : [dog, young, white]
- b : [cat, old, grey]
```

```yaml
- type : {
  a : dog, 
  b : cat
 }
- age : {
  a : young, 
  b : old
 }
- color : {
  a : white, b : grey
 }
```

## Structures

YAML uses three dashes "---" to separate directives from document content. This also serves to signal the start of a document if no directives are present. Three dots "..." indicate the end of a document without starting a new one, for use in communication channels.

```yaml
---
- dog
- young
- white
---
- cat
- old
- grey
```

Repeated nodes are first identified by an anchor (marked with the ampersand - "&"), and are then aliased (referenced with an asterisk "*") thereafter.

```yaml
---
a : &type cat
b : *type
--- #equal to upper data
a : cat
b : cat
```

A question mark and space "? " indicate a complex mapping key. 

```yaml
?
 - cat
 - dog
: 
 - young
 - old
```

## Scalars

Scalar content can be written in block notation, using a literal style (indicated by "|") where all line breaks are significant. Alternatively, they can be written with the folded style (denited by ">") where each line break is folded to a space unless it ends an empty or a more-indented line.

YAML's flow scalars include the plain style and two quoted styles. The double-quoted style provides escape sequences. The single-quoted style is useful when escaping is not needed. All flow scalars can span multiple lines, line breaks are always folded.

```yaml
---
|
Hello,
Do
you know
who I am!
---
>
Hello,
 Do
 you know 
who I am!
---
"Hello,\\\n Do you know \\\nwho I am!"
---
'Hello,\n Do you know \nwho I am!'
```

## Tags

In YAML, untagged nodes are given a type depending on the application. seq, map, str, int ,float, null, binary, omap, set.

```yaml
canonical: 
 - 12345
 - 1.2345e+5
decimal: 
 - +12345
octal: 0o14
hexadecimal: 0xC
negative infinity: -.inf
not a number: .NaN
null: 
booleans: [true, false]
string: '12345'
spaced: 2001-12-14 21:59:43.10 -8
date: 2002-12-14
```

Explicit typing is denoted with a tag using the exclamation point "!" symbol. Global tags are URIs and may be specified in a tag shorthand notation using a handle.

```yaml
it is a string: !!str 2002-04-28
it is a oset: !!omap [a: 1, b: 2, c: 3]
```





