---
layout: post
categories: redis
---

{:toc}



# Overview

Redis is an open source, advanced key-value store and an apt solution for building high-performance, scalable web applications.

Redis has three main peculiarities that sets it apart.

- redis holds its database entirely in the memory, using the disk only for persistence.
- redis has a relatively rich set of data types when compared to many key-value data stores.
- redis can replicate data to any number of slaves.

## Configuration

To update configuration, you can edit redis.conf file directly or update configurations via config set command.

## DataType

Redis supports 5 data types.

### String

Redis string is a sequence of bytes. Strings in reds are binary safe, meaning they have a known length not determined by any special terminating characters. Thus you can store anything up to 512 mb in one string.

You may include string with double quotes.For example:"123","[1,2,3]".

You may operate on string with get and set command.

### Hash

A redis hash is a collection of key-value pairs. Redis hashes are maps between string fields and string values.Hence, they are used to represent objects.

You may use HMSET, HGETALL to fetch the key-value pairs stored in hashes.

Every hash can store up to (2^32-1) field-value pairs.

### List

Redis lists are simply lists of strings, sorted by insertion order. You can add elements to a Redis list on the head or on the tail.

You may use lpush or rpush to add an element into list, use lrange to view partial list.

The max length of a list is (2^32-1).

### Set

Redis sets are unordered collection of strings. In redis, you can add, remove, and test for the existence of member in O(1) time complexity.

Use sadd to add an element into set, and use smembers to fetch the whole set.

The max size of a set is (2^32-1).

### SortedSet

Redis sorted sets are similar to reds sets, non-repeating collections of strings. The difference is, every member of a sorted set is associated with a score, that is used in order to take the sorted set ordered.While members are unique, the scores may be repeated.

Use zadd to insert an element into sortedset, and use zrangebyscore to fetch the elements with score in scope.

# Command

## config

```sh
config get <name> #get configuration value
config set <name> <value> #set configuration value
```

## get

```sh
get <name>
```

get string value related to \<name\>.

## set

```sh
set <name> <string-value>
```

set string value for \<name\>.

## HMSET

```sh
HMSET <name> <key1> <value1> [<key2> <value2> [...]]
```

Put multiple key-value pairs into \<name\>.

## HGETALL

```sh
HGETALL <name>
```

Get all the key-value pairs from \<name\>.

## HMGET

```sh
HMGET <name> <key1> [<key2> [...]]
```

Get the values related to those keys.

## lpush

```sh
lpush <name> <value>
```

Push value as the head of name.

## rpush

```sh
rpush <name> <value>
```

Push value as the tail of name.

## lrange

```sh
lrange <name> <from> <to>
```

view the ranged data in [from, to] stored in the name.

## sadd

```sh
sadd <name> <value>
```

add value into name.

## smembers

```sh
smembers <name>
```

Fetch the whole values stored in name.

## zadd

```sh
zadd <name> <score1> <value1> [<score2> <value2> [...]]
```

add multiple scored value into name.

## zrangebyscore

```sh
zrangebyscore <name> <score_min> <score_max>
```

fetch all the values stored in name with score between score_min and score_max.